## Bayesian machine learning notebooks

This repository is a collection of notebooks covering various topics of Bayesian methods for machine learning.

- [Variational inference for Bayesian neural networks](bayesian_neural_networks.ipynb). Demonstrates how to 
implement and train a Bayesian neural network using a variational inference approach. Example implementation with Keras. 

- [Bayesian regression with linear basis function models](bayesian_linear_regression.ipynb). Introduction to Bayesian
linear regression. Implementation from scratch with plain NumPy as well as usage of scikit-learn for comparison.

- [Gaussian processes](gaussian_processes.ipynb). Introduction to Gaussian processes. Example implementations with 
plain NumPy/SciPy as well as with libraries scikit-learn and GPy.

- [Bayesian optimization](bayesian_optimization.ipynb). Introduction to Bayesian optimization. Example implementations 
with plain NumPy/SciPy as well as with libraries scikit-optimize and GPyOpt. Hyperparameter tuning as application example.  

- [Variational auto-encoder](variational_autoencoder.ipynb). A guide to variational auto-encoders described as a journey
from expectation maximization (EM) algorithm over variational inference to stochastic variational inference. Example 
implementation with Keras.

- [Deep feature consistent variational auto-encoder](variational_autoencoder_dfc.ipynb). Describes how
a perceptual loss can improve the quality of images generated by a variational auto-encoder. Example implementation with
Keras.  

- [Conditional generation via Bayesian optimization in latent space](variational_autoencoder_opt.ipynb). Describes an approach
for conditionally generating outputs with desired properties by doing Bayesian optimization in latent space of variational 
auto-encoders. Example application implemented with Keras and GPyOpt.

- [Topic modeling with PyMC3](topic_modeling_pymc3.ipynb). An introduction to topic models and their implementation with the
probabilistic programming library [PyMC3](https://docs.pymc.io/).
